Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain the American drama
thriller film called “Before I Wake.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
It is midnight when a grown man slowly enters
a little kid’s room.
He points a gun at the sleeping child.
He seems to be nervous and apologizes to him,
calling him Cody.
A sudden commotion makes him pull the trigger;
the gunfire awakens Cody.
The man breaks down in tears and apologizes
to him.
Cut to a few months later, a couple named
Jessie and Mark Hobson have been approved
as foster parents.
They sit across Natalie, a worker at the foster
care.
She tells them about an eight-year-old boy
named Cody.
Cody’s father was never around, and his
mother died when he was only three.
Cody has not had many good experiences in
the foster care system.
His former foster parents had abandoned him,
leaving him to live alone for about a month
before he was rescued.
He has sleep issues, but he is resilient and
smart.
Natalie thinks he would be perfect for the
Hobsons to foster.
Having found the perfect kid for them, the
Hobsons return home happily that day.
Their young son, Sean, had died by accidentally
drowning in a bathtub.
This had a huge impact on the couple, but
now they are ready to welcome a new member
to their family.
At home, they redecorate the house to make
it fit for Cody.
Mark takes down every picture of Sean from
the walls and only leaves their family picture.
He also sets an extra handle on the wall beside
the bathtub.
Later that day, Jessie tells her self-help
group about their decision to foster Cody.
Everyone there is happy for her.
Jessie has had trouble sleeping since Sean’s
death.
The next day, the couple impatiently waits
for Cody to arrive.
Natalie’s car parks in their driveway and
they rush to see Cody.
He wishes the couple a good morning.
He brings with him a box....that Mark helps
him carry inside.
As Cody is looking around the house, the family
picture with Sean...seems to have caught his eyes
He stares at it, as Mark tells him about his
collection of games.
The adults then take him to his new room which
he loves.
Especially the curtains with butterflies on
them.
Natalie tells them that Cody likes to collect
butterflies as a hobby.
Later that night, the couple tuck Cody to
bed.
But after they leave, Cody sits up and opens
the box that he brought with him.
Inside is a can of soda and a book about butterflies.
He sips on the soda and starts reading the
book under the blanket using a torchlight.
He doesn’t sleep at all.
The following day is his first day at school.
That day at school, Cody meets Annie and befriends
her.
Jessie is folding Cody’s laundry that day
when she finds his secret box.
Inside is his book about butterflies, several
cans of soda, and a bottle of stimulants.
When she tucks him to bed at night, she asks
him about the box.
According to him, the stimulants and cans
of soda are to help him not fall asleep.
He adds that when he falls asleep, the “canker”
man comes.
Thinking that the child just has nightmares,
Jessie dismisses it.
She tells him that the man will go away with
little reasoning.
However, Cody believes that the Canker man
ate his mother, and is always with him.
Jessie puts him to bed and goes to Mark in
their living room.
She feels sorry for going through Cody’s
box.
She feels like she has invaded his privacy,
but Mark assures her it is for his own good.
Some time later, they are watching a movie
together.
Then all of a sudden, several butterflies
fly into the room.
They look holographic.
The couple is beyond surprised to see this
many at once.
Mark captures one in a jar for Cody, while
Jessie closes the windows.
As the windows close, all of the butterflies
disappear.
The couple is left stunned.
Jessie has a hard time falling asleep that
night.
She goes down to the kitchen where she hears
an odd noise.
She looks around to see if there is an intruder.
Suddenly, Sean appears in the dark living
room.
Jessie is in shock; a glass falls from her
hand and breaks.
When she looks up again, Sean is gone.
She goes to Cody’s room to check on him;
he sleeps peacefully.
Cut to the next day, Jessie is back with the
self-help group.
She tells them about seeing Sean.
According to her, Sean seems angry to be replaced
by Cody.
Later that day, Mark notices Cody staring
at their family picture with Sean in it.
He talks to the couple about Sean.
They lovingly answer all Cody’s questions.
At night, the butterflies appear again.
They look around when suddenly, Sean appears
in the room.
He is wearing the same clothes as their family
picture.
The couple is beyond surprised.
They walk up to him to touch him.
When they do, they realize that he is actually
real.
But Sean suddenly disappears.
At the same time, we see Cody wake up.
He comes down and apologizes to the couple.
The breakfast the following day is awkward.
Jessie and Mark do not know what to say; they
are still in shock.
But they believe that Sean’s appearance
has something to do with Cody.
Cody apologizes to them for something.
Later, when Cody is back from school, the
family watches videos of Sean.
It is a Christmas video and all three of them
look very happy in it.
That night after Cody falls asleep, Mark and
Jessie stay in the living room.
Suddenly, the room lights up with Christmas
lights, and a Christmas tree appears too.
Just then, Sean appears wearing the clothes
he did in the video.
The video has come to life.
Mark and Jessie are left speechless.
They finally realize that Cody is blessed
with supernatural power.
All of his dreams come to life while he sleeps.
However, when he wakes up, the dream vanishes.
Cut to the next day, Cody draws a figure of
a man and proceeds to scribble over it.
He tells Annie that it is the Canker man.
Sometimes when Cody scribbles over him, it
keeps the man away.
Jessie puts the pictures of Sean back for
Cody to see.
She wants to meet her dead son again.
However, Mark is not fond of the idea.
He accuses Jessie of using Cody to fulfill
her desires.
But Jessie insists that Cody is the only one
who can help them heal.
Irritated, Mark puts the photo frames away.
The next day, Cody brings a butterfly trapped
in a jar to school.
But his bully, Tate, breaks it.
Cody has been staying up all night in fear
of the Canker man, so he almost falls asleep
in the class.
During the lunch break, he gets permission
to rest in the class for a while.
He is alone there when he falls asleep.
Cody dreams of the canker man.
Cody's blessing is also a curse.
Along with his dreams, his nightmares are
real too.
As Cody sleeps, his bully enters the classroom
and faces the Canker man.
Annie sees the canker man indulge Tate and
yells in fear.
Cody wakes up, but Tate has disappeared.
The police arrive at the school to investigate
the disappearance.
Cody cannot risk sleeping now, so he takes
coffee to avoid sleeping.
That night, Cody reads the book about butterflies
like he usually does.
Suddenly, he hears a noise; he checks under
the bed when suddenly, Tate’s ghost appears
in front of him and drags him under the bed.
Cody tries to fight and screams “I am awake.”
Meanwhile, Sean appears before Jessie; he
too is saying, “I am awake.”
Cody yells loudly which makes the dreams go
away.
Jessie rushes to him, asks him what is wrong,
and tries to calm him down.
The following day, Jessie talks to a doctor
about Cody’s insomnia.
Meanwhile, Cody and Mark go shopping and buy
stuff for Cody’s room.
When they get back home, two police officers
are in front of their house.
They want to interview Cody about Tate’s
disappearance.
Later that day, Cody asks the couple about
Sean’s death, but the couple dismisses the questions.
Jessie mixes the prescribed sleeping pills
with Cody’s milk, unbeknownst to her husband...
and he drinks it.
Marks informs Cody that Sean had died from
drowning as he tucks him to bed.
The drug makes Cody sleep peacefully that
night.
Jessie and Mark are in the living room again.
Some time later, Sean appears in front of
them, but he looks evil and vomits water.
Mark rushes up to wake Cody, but he cannot
wake up...because of the drug.
Soon, the dream turns into a nightmare.
A tall creature appears in front of Jessie
in the living room.
She runs to Cody’s room and locks the door.
Mark is worried about Cody not waking up;
just then, Jessie confesses to have drugged him.
She watches in horror as the creature devours
Mark.
Suddenly, she falls unconscious.
She wakes up in the morning to Cody calling
911.
Mark is nowhere to be found.
It is as if he has disappeared into thin air.
The police arrive at the scene and accuse
Jessie of drugging the kid.
They believe that Jessie and Mark are abusing
Cody, so they take him away, as Jessie cries
for them to stop.
Jessie then goes to Natalie, but she too accuses
her of child abuse and tells her to go away.
However, Jessie notices Cody’s file on her
desk and manages to steal it.
Through the file, she finds out about a man
named Whelan Young.
He is the father of the second family Cody
was fostered by.
She goes to see him.
Young tells her that he and his wife fostered
Cody for fifteen months before his dream swallowed
his wife too.
He was so angry at Cody that he almost killed
him; this is the scene we saw at the beginning
of the film.
He then asks her to kill Cody so that no others
can be victims of his nightmares, but Jessie refuses.
From the file, she also finds Cody’s mother’s
information and her hospital reports.
She decides to go to the hospital and investigate
further.
The hospital provides her with her mother’s
belongings.
It consists of a pillow shaped like a butterfly
and her journal.
Reading the journal and the reports, Jessie
finds the secret about the Canker man’s existence.
She then goes to the orphanage Cody is staying
at with the pillow.
Cody hasn't slept for several nights, so his
caretakers are worried about him.
Unknown about the Canker man, they give him
a tranquillizer to help him sleep.
Cody dreams of the man that night as well.
When Jessie walks into the building, she sees
several nightmares in every room.
First, she is startled by a flutter of black
moths, then she sees Sean drowning in the bathtub.
Next, she sees a horrifying-looking woman
twist Cody’s head.
Lastly, she sees Mark appears in front of
her.
Scared, she closes the door to that room.
She finally reaches Cody’s room.
The Canker man runs towards her to attack
her but instead of running away, she shows
him the butterfly pillow.
The Canker man stops when he sees it.
Jessie slowly hugs the man.
As she does that, the man turns into Cody
who then disappears.
Jessie picks a sleeping Cody up and takes
him outside.
Natalie has been indulged by the Canker man
and comes back to life.
She sees Jessie take him away, but lets her.
They see several beautiful butterflies flying
in the hallway.
His nightmare has changed into a magical dream.
Cut to the next day, Jessie tells Cody that
his mother’s name was Andrea and that she
died of pancreatic cancer.
Andrea had found out about Cody’s gift when
he was little.
She has written it in her journal.
But when Cody was just three, Andrea was diagnosed
with cancer.
Cody had seen his mother on the verge of death,
battling cancer.
She was thin and bald at that time.
Since he was too young to recognize her as
his mother, his little mind made up that it
was the canker man.
He was told that cancer had taken his mother
away.
With time, he made up the canker man, so he
believed that he took her away.
This began his nightmares.
Now that Cody knows that the Canker man is
not real, Jessie believes that his nightmare
will not come back.
However, Mark and other people that the Canker
man had taken still haven't come back.
Jessie believes that as Cody learns to control
his power, there might be a possibility of
them coming back.
Cody thanks Jessie for bringing him home and
calls her mom.
He begins to learn how to control his magical
gift.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.